
Filename  -> Booster heater-1 Inspection certificate.pdf
author  -> Rashed Humaid Rashed Al Shamsi
producer -> Microsoft® Word 2016
subject -> None
title -> SHAMS
Number of pages -> 25 Page 1 of 8  SHAMS POWER COMPANY  ENGINEERING DIVISION  INSPECTION & CORROSION SECTION  SHAMS 1  LOCATION : R1LBA01BC001  KKS : R1LBA01BC001  GRADE & CLASSIFICATION : 2  CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION  The equipment detailed below was examined in accordance with the SHAMS code of practice for plant inspection,   ITEM : Booster heater-1 LOCATION : SHAMS Plant  TYPE OF INSPECTION : Major DATE OF INSPECTION : March, 2020  PLACE OF INSPECTION : IN-SITU DATE OF LAST INSPECTION : January, 2019  REPORT :  1.0. SUMMARY The above booster heater was taken off line, isolated, opened, vented & cleaned for major external & internal inspections and prepared with the required scaffolding.   2.0. SUBJECT  2.1. This is a vertical, cylindrical heater.  Size Stack Height 13.6 Tube material P91 Tube supports material Top : A351 HK40 X End: SA-516 Gr 70 Tube size  Outer diameter 114mm Sch80 corrosion allowance 1.5mm Number of tubes 104 vertical tubes Design pressure Convection: 110 bar X radiant: 110 bar Design temperature of cleaned tube Radiant: 601c X convection: 526c for steam Operating Temperature  390-540c Operating pressure 93 barg Insulation Cast-able refractory  Heater has 13 inlets and outlets. Pressure and temperature at inlets are 98 bar, 360c and 96 bar, 534c at outlets imum       ............................................................................................................................................. The above equipment is/ is not considered suitable for further service under the present operating conditions  NEXT MAJOR INSPECTION DUE : January 2022  INSPECTED: Osman Ismail                               ENDORSEMENT:        48    MONTHS      REVIEWED: Ali Al Masabai                              Page 2 of 8   3.0 HISTORY  This heater was commissioned in 2013. Some periodical inspection pictures and reports since Dec2014 are available.   4.0. SCOPE OF INSPECTION  4.1. Visual Inspection of internal and external. 4.2 Replica test 4.3 Ultrasonic thickness survey  5.0. CONDITIONS FOUND 5.1. External:  5.1.1 All painting especially around burners found intact without any evidence of peel off, blistering or overheating, apart from minor color change ( blue to white) at very few locations around burner due to very minor flue gas leakage or heat transfer by bracket support impeded in refractory. 5.1.2 All burners connected piping and houses found satisfactory without evidence of any damages.  5.1.3 All ladders, stairways and handrails found in satisfactory condition. 5.1.4 All concrete support found in satisfactory condition without evidence of cracking or spalling.  5.1.5 Manhole found in satisfactory condition without evidence of flue gas leaking or burning, apart from some peep holes found not opening properly. 5.1.6 All external piping insulation found in satisfactory condition. 5.1.7 All earth lugs found in satisfactory condition.  5.2. Internal:  5.2.1. All external surfaces of all radiation and convection tubes found in satisfactory conditions without evidence of creep, bowing, sagging and overheating.  5.2.2 All piping supports and hungers found satisfactory conditions without evidence of damage or broken. 5.2.3 All insulation (fibers and anchors) found in satisfactory conditions in radiation and convection zones. 5.2.5 All floor bricks found in satisfactory condition apart from minor separation between floor bricks.  5.2.6 Burners found in satisfactory condition without evidence of back fire apart from minor deposit on burner opening most probably due to burned fallen refractory materials. 5.2.7 Refractory around burners found in satisfactory condition without evidence of cracking or spalling. 5.2.8 Fallen down small parts of refectory material found scattered on floor.    (See below attached photos)    Page 3 of 8   5.4 Nondestructive tests 5.4.1 Ultrasonic thickness survey       It was carried out on all tubes at different locations. All reading found satisfactory without      evidence of thickness reduction.  5.5 Replica test       It was carried out on 6 on the hottest locations of the tubes. All found satisfactory without any  creep voids or metallurgical changes to the original tempered martensitic structure.   6.0. Recommendations      6.1 All deposited material on burner opening should be cleaned.      6.2 Peep holes should be clean and maintain to open smoothly to allow operators clearly    check flame condition.     6.3 Heater to be inspected after 4 years as per SHAMS Code of Practice.   7.0. Inspection Grade and Interval  In accordance with the latest revision of SHAMS Code of Practice, this booster heater-1 was endorsed for 48 months for next Major Inspection.   FREQUENCY    : 48 MONTHS. ENDORSEMENT   : 48 MONTHS, Next Major Insp. due  : January 2022                              Page 4 of 8   8.0 Booster Heater Pilot Burner Modification   8.1 Overview During Outage 2020, pilot burner of BHs was replaced by new higher capacity continuously running pilot burner in order to run BH with lower steam flow requirement. This will help to evaporate the condensate inside U type steam tubes of BHs without much reddownstream header. Ultimately, it will save gas consumption in HTF-Hs which will be used in BH to generate electricity more efficiently. The old burner system includes an intermittent igniter. This igniter is brought into service following a purge cycle and is used to ignite main burner operation. Following main burner ignition, the igniter is removed from service. To accommodate the above mentioned requirement for low heat input stand-by service, a new larger igniter was retrofitted. It will be light off prior to main burner start. Logic in BH PLC were implemented to avoid the pilot burner operation continuously during main burner firing.  8.2 Logic Modifications  During the light-off sequence, rather than an automatic transfer from igniter operation to main burner operation, when the igniter is brought into service the BMS system will hold this condition giving indication of HOT STANDBY MODE. Air control devices should be held in minimum light-off positions. Following a 10 second delay, an option should be provided to site operators to TRANSFER TO MAIN BURNER. This option would continue the already programmed transition sequence to main burner operation. After this transition, the system will release to modulate per current logic. A flame scanner signal must be maintained during all modes or otherwise the system should initiate a trip. No automated adjustment of igniter heat input is included in the system. Rather, adjustment of igniter heat input will require mechanical adjustment of the igniter regulator spring setting.                              Page 5 of 8   Photos    General view of booster heater -1 Burner connected piping   Concrete support Earthing lug   Ladder, stairways and handrail Burner assembly   Page 6 of 8    Refractory around burner Burner blades   Floor bricks Fallen down refractory materials    Close up view of bottom elbow   Many way General view of radiation and convection zone tubes   Page 7 of 8    Close up to top supports of radiation zone Close up view of radiation tubes.   Close up view of wall insulation at radiation zone Close up view of pipe support at radiation zone   General view of top tube and insulation  radiation zone   Finned tubes in convection zone   Insulation in top side of radiation zone  Bottom elbows of radiation zone  Page 8 of 8   